=== Firefox keyboard tips ===

  '             find as you type link
  /             find as you type text
  C-h           history
  C-g           find again
  C-S-g         find again backwards
  C-TAB         next tab
  C-PGDN        next tab
  C-PGUP        prev tab
  A-Enter       open address in new tab
  C-0           restore text size
  A-d           select location bar
  C-l           select location bar
  C-1           select tab 1 (to 9)

The full list of keyboard shortcuts is here: http://www.mozilla.org/support/firefox/keyboard

=== Jump links ===

Jump links let you type a keyword and parameters in the location bar to jump directly to a webpage.
For example, it can be useful to have jump links for dictionary search, quote search, or site search pages. 
In practice would use this as ''dic word'', ''q stockname'', ''ubuntu search string'', etc.

Let's create a keyword to jump to Linux Journal articles via ''lja number''.

# Visit and bookmark this page: http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/6941
# Open bookmark editor, edit properties
# Replace the number 6941 in the URL with ''%s'', set keyword to ''lja''

==== My favorite jump links ====

* Google Search ''g'' http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=%s
* Google Search ''lucky'' http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&btnI=&q=%s
* Wikipedia ''wiki'' http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%s
* Ubuntuforums.org Search ''ubuntu'' http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=%s+site:ubuntuforums.org
* Amazon.com: Music Search ''music'' amazon.com:%20Music%20Search%20:%20music
* Amazon.co.jp: Books Search ''book'' http://www.amazon.co.jp/exec/obidos/ASIN/0131861506/qid%3D1132986322/503-6309961-5523114?url=index=books-us&search-type=quick-search&field-keywords=%s
* site:msdn.microsoft.com ''msdn'' http://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Amsdn.microsoft.com+%s&sourceid=mozilla-search&start=0&start=0&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&client=firefox&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:unofficial

=== Tricks ===

* Firefox is slow to load initially on Windows XP. You can speed this up a bit by using XP's built in prefetcher. Simply right-click on the Firefox icon you use to start the browser. Add the text /Prefetch:1 to the end of the line in the target field.
* Go to the page that has the search box on it, right click in the search box and choose "Add a Keyword for this Search..."

* If you hold down the CTRL key when clicking a link, it will be opened in a new tab.
* If you hold down the SHIFT key when clicking a link, it will be opened in a new browser window.
* While holding down the Ctrl key, you can select table cells. Just click on any non-link portion of the cell. You can select multiple cells, either by clicking individually on the cells you want to select or by just dragging with the mouse. Once selected, you can use Copy and Paste just like you would on a text selection.
* Multiple pages can be set as the "Home Page" using the currently open tabs.

=== about:config ===

; browser.tabs.showSingleWindowModePrefs : Set this to true to enable new Tabbed Browsing options, for example to force links that open new windows to open in new tabs.
; browser.chrome.favicons : Set this to false to disable downloading favicons shown in the location bar of websites.
; browser.chrome.site_icons : Set this to false to disable storing favicons in the bookmark file.
; browser.blink_allowed : What would this be...
; middlemouse.contentLoadURL : (UNIX only) Set this to true to open URLs pasted in the browser window with the middle mouse button.

=== userChrome.css ===

  /* Change color of active tab */
  tab{
     -moz-appearance: none !important;
  }
  tab[selected="true"] {
     background-color: rgb(222,218,210) !important;
     color: black !important;
  }
  
  /* Change color of normal tabs */
  tab:not([selected="true"]) {
     background-color: rgb(200,196,188) !important;
     color: gray !important;
  }
  
  /* Make the Search box flex wider (in this case 400 pixels wide) */
  #search-container, #searchbar {
     -moz-box-flex: 400 !important;
  }
  
  /* Change cursor for links that open in new window */
  :link[target="_blank"], :visited[target="_blank"],
  :link[target="_new"],   :visited[target="_new"] {
     cursor:  crosshair;
  } 
  
  /* Change cursor for JavaScript links */
  a[href^="javascript:"] {
     cursor: move;
  } 

=== prefs.js ===

  # Mozilla User Preferences
  
  /* Do not edit this file.
   *
   * If you make changes to this file while the application is running,
   * the changes will be overwritten when the application exits.
   *
   * To make a manual change to preferences, you can visit the URL about:config
   * For more information, see http://www.mozilla.org/unix/customizing.html#prefs
   */
  
  user_pref("browser.blink_allowed", false);
  user_pref("browser.chrome.favicons", false);
  user_pref("browser.chrome.site_icons", false);
  user_pref("browser.link.open_newwindow", 3);
  user_pref("browser.startup.homepage", "about:");
  user_pref("browser.tabs.autoHide", false);
  user_pref("browser.tabs.loadInBackground", false);
  user_pref("dom.disable_window_flip", true);
  user_pref("dom.disable_window_move_resize", true);
  user_pref("middlemouse.contentLoadURL", true);
  user_pref("pref.browser.homepage.disable_button.current_page", false);
  user_pref("pref.privacy.disable_button.clear_cache", false);
  user_pref("pref.privacy.disable_button.clear_cookies", false);
  user_pref("pref.privacy.disable_button.clear_formdata", false);
  user_pref("pref.privacy.disable_button.clear_history", false);
  user_pref("pref.privacy.disable_button.view_cookies", false);
  user_pref("security.warn_entering_secure", false);
  user_pref("security.warn_leaving_secure", false);
  user_pref("security.warn_submit_insecure", false);
  user_pref("security.warn_viewing_mixed", false);
  user_pref("signon.rememberSignons", false);


