;<- and ->: Seek backward/forward 10 seconds.
;up and down:    Seek backward/forward 1 minute.
;pgup and pgdown:    Seek backward/forward 10 minutes.
;[ and ]:    Decreases/increases current playback speed by 10%.
;{ and }:    Halves/doubles current playback speed.
;Backspace:    Reset playback speed to normal.
;< and >:    backward/forward in playlist
;HOME and END:    next/previous playtree entry in the parent list
;INS and DEL:    next/previous alternative source (ASX playlist only)
;p / SPACE:    Pause movie (pressing again unpauses).
;.:    Step forward. Pressing once will pause movie, every consecutive press will play one frame and then go into pause mode again (any other key unpauses).
;q / ESC:    Stop playing and quit.
;+ and -:    Adjust audio delay by +/- 0.1 seconds.
;/ and *:    Decrease/increase volume.
;9 and 0:    Decrease/increase volume.
;m:    Mute sound.
; # :    Cycle through the available audio tracks.
;f:    Toggle fullscreen (also see -fs).
;T:    Toggle stay-on-top (also see -ontop).
;w and e:    Decrease/increase pan-and-scan range.
;o:    Toggle OSD states: none / seek / seek + timer / seek + timer + total time.
;d:    Toggle frame dropping states: none / skip display / skip decoding (see -framedrop and -hardframedrop).
;v:    Toggle subtitle visibility.
;b / j:    Cycle through the available subtitles.
;F:    Toggle displaying "forced subtitles".
;a:    Toggle subtitle aligment: top/middle/bottom.
;z and x:    Adjust subtitle delay by +/- 0.1 seconds.
;r and t:    Move subtitles up/down.
;i:    Set EDL mark.

== More ... ==

The following keys are valid only when using a hardware accelerated video output (xv, (x)vidix, (x)mga, etc), the software equalizer (-vf eq or -vf eq2) or hue filter (-vf hue).

;1 and 2:    Adjust contrast.
;3 and 4:    Adjust brightness.
;5 and 6:    Adjust hue.
;7 and 8:    Adjust saturation.


