== How to ... ? ==

;How to limit rows?:
 select ... where rownum < 20;

;How to show tables with row count?:
 select table_name, num_rows from user_tables;

... well, this is a lie... I guess the <code>num_rows</code> column is a cached value, not the actual current value. But it's fast, and might still be a good measure of the relative table sizes.

;How to unlock accounts?:
As the oracle admin user (probably oracle), run <code>sqlplus</code>, connect with <code>/ as sysdba</code>

 alter user scott account unlock;
 connect scott/tiger

When connecting for the first time, oracle will ask to change the account password. (JDBC, ODP accesses will fail if you don't do this step.)

;How to duplicate a table?:
 create table dept_bak as select * from dept;

This will not duplicate constraints though.

;How to add unique constraint to a table?:
 alter table dept_bak add constraint u_dept unique (deptno);

== Starting the database ==

With the <code>oracle</code> user.

# <code>lsnrctl start</code>
#: If you do this multiple times, not a problem, it just gives you an error.
# <code>dbstart</code>
#: If this does not work, you can try this alternative method:

 $ sqlplus                                      
 
 SQL*Plus: Release 10.2.0.1.0 - Production on Sun Nov 27 15:39:27 2005
 
 Copyright (c) 1982, 2005, Oracle.  All rights reserved.
 
 Enter user-name: / as sysdba
 Connected to an idle instance.
 
 SQL> startup
 ORACLE instance started.
 
 Total System Global Area  285212672 bytes
 Fixed Size                  1218968 bytes
 Variable Size              96470632 bytes
 Database Buffers          180355072 bytes
 Redo Buffers                7168000 bytes
 Database mounted.
 Database opened.
 
 SQL> exit

* optional: <code>isqlplusctl start</code>
 netstat -ntl | grep :5560
 iSQL*Plus: http://localhost:5560/isqlplus
 (even normal users can login here)
 iSQL*Plus DBA: http://localhost:5560/isqlplus/dba
 TODO: how to login here?

* optional: <code>emctl start dbconsole</code>
 netstat -ntl | grep :1158
 http://localhost:1158/em
 any user -> "as normal"
 sys -> "as sysdba", "as sysoper"

== Stopping the database ==

With the <code>oracle</code> user.

# <code>dbsshut</code>
#: If this does not work, you can try to shutdown manually:

 $ sqlplus
 
 SQL*Plus: Release 10.2.0.1.0 - Production on Sun Nov 27 15:40:29 2005
 
 Copyright (c) 1982, 2005, Oracle.  All rights reserved.
 
 Enter user-name: / as sysdba
 
 Connected to:
 Oracle Database 10g Enterprise Edition Release 10.2.0.1.0 - Production
 With the Partitioning, OLAP and Data Mining options
 
 SQL> shutdown immediate
 Database closed.
 Database dismounted.
 ORACLE instance shut down.
 
 SQL> exit

* <code>isqlplusctl stop</code>
* <code>emctl stop dbconsole</code>
* <code>lsnrctl stop</code>

== Quickies ==

* <code>connect / as sysdba</code>
* <code>connect sys/password as sysdba</code>
* How to create new password file:
** stop database
** <code>orapwd file=$ORACLE_HOME/dbs/orapw$ORACLE_SID password=mypasswd</code>
** start database
* Alter user:
 ALTER USER scott ACCOUNT LOCK;     -- lock a user account
 ALTER USER scott ACCOUNT UNLOCK;   -- unlocks a locked users account
 ALTER USER scott PASSWORD EXPIRE;  -- Force user to choose a new password
 
 ALTER USER scott IDENTIFIED BY newtiger;

* Create/drop user:
 CREATE USER scott
     IDENTIFIED BY tiger  -- Assign password
     DEFAULT TABLESACE  tools -- Assign space for table and index segments
     TEMPORARY TABLESPACE temp; -- Assign sort space
 
 DROP USER scott CASCADE;  -- Remove user

* After creating a new user, assign the required privileges:
 GRANT CONNECT, RESOURCE TO scott;
 GRANT DBA TO scott;   -- Make user a DB Administrator

* Remember to give the user some space quota on its tablespaces:
 ALTER USER scott QUOTA UNLIMITED ON tools;

* Accounts locked by default: scott/tiger, hr/hr, oe/oe, sh/sh, system/manager (as sysdba!)

* Logical backup and recovery:
 exp file=/tmp/exp.dmp log=/tmp/exp.log
 imp file=/tmp/exp.dmp log=/tmp/imp.log


