<b style="color:red">Important:</b> the notes here reflect my best knowledge about Solaris a couple of years back (at the time when Solaris 10 became available for free download). None of the methods here should be considered best practice ''without further validation''.

== Installation ==

* Download from: http://www.sun.com/software/solaris/

* Even with a modest selection of packages to install, Solaris uses almost 10GB disk space. This is good to know in advance for planning your disk/partition needs.

* During the installation, first chance you get record your IP address and create a normal user account! (Without that, I found myself stuck with unusable X configuration and no way to get out.) It's good to have a normal account because root login with ssh is disabled by default.

* When presented with the question of the Desktop Manager, you want the Sun Java Desktop System (= Gnome)
** To change the Desktop Manager later, you can use <code>kdmconfig</code>. (Choose Xorg.)

== Configuration ==

* The following seemed a nice way of creating a group for users and a user account with admin status:
 gropadd -g 100 users
 useradd -g users -G staff -d /export/home/janos -m janos

* The default screen resolution is very small. To make it bigger I created an Xorg configuration file with the <code>/usr/X11/bin/xorgconfig</code>. I used default values for most options. Not too surprisingly Xorg did not work with the resulting configuration file. To make it work I changed the video driver from <code>vga</code> to <code>vesa</code>. For the mouse wheel I added <code>Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"</code> to the mouse settings.

* How to set the hostname:
** After a standard installation my hostname was <code>unknown</code>.
** When the IP address gets assigned dynamically, I don't believe it's possible to setup the hostname. There appear to be several hosts files, but even if I set the hostname of the loopback interface <code>127.0.0.1</code> to something, since the network interface has no name, my hostname remained unknown.
** After configuring my DHCP server to assign a hostname, the DHCP client of Solaris updated the following files:
*** <code>/etc/inet/hosts</code> (symlinked from <code>/etc/hosts</code>)
*** <code>/etc/hostname.pcn0</code>
** Without a DHCP server, ''I guess'' these are the files to update by hand.
*** The DHCP client program appears to be <code>/lib/svc/method/net-physical</code>, and it won't detect the network interface unless the file <code>/etc/hostname.IFNAME</code> exists.

* How to change the default shell:
** There is no <code>chsh</code>, use <code>usermod</code> instead:<pre>usermod -s /usr/bin/bash janos</pre>
** There is also no <code>chfn</code>, <code>vipw</code> either.

* How to make caps lock an additional control:
 xmodmap -e 'clear lock'
 xmodmap -e 'add Control = Caps_Lock'

== Adding software ==

How to install software in your shiny new Solaris system.

I wish there were easy to use package management tools and public repositories of program packages for Solaris 10. However, a wide range of packages can be installed in either of the following methods:

* Download from http://www.sunfreeware.com/. See detailed notes below.
* Go to the program's website, they might have binary builds for Solaris 10 (for example Firefox).
* Compile from source.

=== Sunfreeware.com ===

* Installation steps:
*# Go to http://www.sunfreeware.com/
*#* Download: http://www.sunfreeware.com/download.html
*#* FAQ: http://www.sunfreeware.com/faq.html
*# Download packages for your version.
*# gunzip the files.
*# pkgadd -d the files

* It's important to read the info of each package you install, for example the dependencies are clearly indicated. http://www.sunfreeware.com/programlistintel10.html
* I downloaded all the available packages to my linux box with:
 lftp -c 'o ftp.sunfreeware.com/pub/freeware/intel ; mirror 10'

* I could install the following packages with no problem whatsoever:
** <code>wget-1.9.1</code>
** <code>vim-6.3</code>, <code>ncurses-5.4</code>, <code>glib-1.2.10</code>, <code>gtk+-1.2.10</code>
*** Note: the glib and gtk+ versions do matter.
*** To make it colored, export <code>TERM=xterm-color</code>.
* <code>sudo-1.6.8p9</code>: instead of the <code>wheel</code> group, I used <code>staff</code> because it already existed and had the same GID as usually <code>wheel</code>. Configured <code>/etc/sudoers</code> accordingly using <code>/usr/local/sbin/visudo</code>.
* <code>subversion</code>: it had a lot of dependencies, see the website for the list. Also, had to add this to <code>~/.profile</code>:
 export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/apr/lib
* <code>coreutils</code>: to have fancy colored ls

== Adding users ==

I thought this would be the right way:

 useradd -m -s /usr/bin/bash janos

But it didn't work somehow. For one thing, root has no write permission to /home by default. Adding it is easy enough, but I didn't want to make changes to defaults. So did this instead:

 useradd -m -s /usr/bin/bash -d /export/home/janos janos

Better yet, create a group for users:

 groupadd -g 100 users

...And create a user as a member of users and with supplementary membership to staff like this:

 useradd -m -s /usr/bin/bash -d /export/home/janos -g users -G staff janos

The shell can be changed later too with:

 usermod -s /usr/bin/bash janos


