== Keyboard shortcuts ==

 Backspace               when in a folder, one folder level up
 Alt + Space + n         minimize app
 Alt + Space + m         move window
 Alt + Space + x         maximize window
 Alt + Escape            lower window
 Shift + F10             same as menu
 W + m                   minimize all apps
 W + Shift + w           remaximize all apps which were minimized by w-m
 W + d                   minimize all apps. hit again to maximize them back
 W + e                   explorer (disks)
 W + r                   run application
 W + Pause/Break         system properties
 W + l                   lock
 F6                      switch between panels in applications
 Ctrl + Shift + Esc      task manager

== Command names of interesting system programs ==

Many system programs are easier to access by using the <code>W + r</code> shortcut and typing the command name rather than finding in the control panel or menus.

* appwiz.cpl - The application manager, list of installed applications, uninstall, repair
* cmd - Launch a DOS terminal
* explorer, iexplorer, ie7 - Our beloved, folder explorer and internet explorer
* notepad - The primitive notepad application
* regedit - The registry editor
* taskmgr - The task manager, with list of running applications, memory usage, terminate applications
* sysdm.cpl - System profile
* compmgmt.msc - Computer administration
* services.msc - The service manager, list of all services, start/stop/restart windows services. Can also connect to other computers.
* %JAVA_HOME% - Type any variable that contains a path to open the path in explorer
* mstsc -v:hostname -- Launch remote desktop connection, must be enabled on target machine (system profile | remote tab)
* mstsc -v:hostname -console -- apparently only works in win2k3 server
* tasklist - This one can only run in a DOS terminal (cmd), shows the list of running programs, similar to ps in unix
* runas /u:USER PROG - Run a program as a different user
* tsadmin - View terminal server connections. Can also connect to other computers.

Most of these programs are in c:\windows\system32 folder btw. That's good to know if for example you want to run them as Administrator (right click and select ''Run as...''). Since the system folder is difficult to browse (too many files), I keep shortcuts to these files for convenient access.

The history of commands executed with <code>W + r</code> is stored in the registry key:
 My Computer\HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\RunMRU

== DOS commands and tips ==

This section was migrated to [[DOS cheat sheet]].

== Backup system state ==

* Programs / Accessories / System Tools / Backup / My Computer / System State

== How to lock computer in Remote Desktop Connection? ==

There is no such menu option and all global key bindings like Ctrl+L or Ctrl+Alt+Del trigger the functions on the local machine, not on the remote desktop.

The solution is the command: <code>rundll32 user32.dll,LockWorkStation</code>

You might want to create a shortcut to it on the Desktop.

== Other tips ==

* Right-click-drag gives you the option to copy or move. (As opposed to left-click-drag, which will typically move when the source and destination drives are the same, and copy when they are different.)
* Create keyboard shortcuts to files: right click on file, r, shortcut tab, C + Shift + some key.
* The hosts file (equivalent to <tt>/etc/hosts</tt> in UNIX) is in <tt>%systemroot%\system32\drivers\etc\hosts</tt>

== Other interesting commands ==

<pre>arp.exe -a
at.exe
autorunsc.exe
getmac.exe
handle.exe -a
hostname.exe
ipconfig.exe /all
msinfo32.exe /report %OUTFILE%
nbtstat.exe -n
nbtstat.exe -A 127.0.0.1
nbtstat.exe -S
nbtstat.exe -c
net.exe share
net.exe use
net.exe file
net.exe user
net.exe accounts
net.exe view
net.exe start
net.exe Session
net.exe localgroup administrators /domain
net.exe localgroup
net.exe localgroup administrators
net.exe group
netdom.exe query DC
netstat.exe -ao
netstat.exe -no
openfiles.exe /query/v
psfile.exe
pslist.exe
pslist.exe -t
psloggedon.exe
psservice.exe
pstat.exe
psuptime.exe
quser.exe
route.exe print
sc.exe query
sc.exe queryex
sclist.exe
showgrps.exe
srvcheck \127.0.0.1
tasklist.exe /svc
whoami.exe
</pre>

== Windows 7 ==

* How to change environmental variables for regular user?
** Press the Windows key and start typing "environment" and select "Edit environment variables for your account"
** Or the geeky way: <pre>rundll32 sysdm.cpl,EditEnvironmentVariables</pre>


